
** Pure 0.4 2008-06-19

This release features some more bug and portability fixes, a cleanup of the
source tree and an overhaul of the build system, see the ChangeLog for
details. Building a separate runtime lib on x86-64 works now (but requires a
patched LLVM, see the INSTALL file for details). Moreover, it is now possible
to install different Pure versions in parallel.

An Emacs mode for Pure and support for executing Pure scripts using "shebangs"
has been added. Paging of the 'list' command is now implemented using the
program specified with the PURE_MORE environment variable. This allows you to
disable this option (if PURE_MORE is undefined) or choose any pager program
and options that you prefer. Define PURE_MORE=more in your shell startup files
to get back the old behaviour of piping 'list' output through 'more'.

There's also a new syntax for multiple left-hand sides in function definitions
and 'case' rules, as suggested by Jiri Spitz and discussed on the mailing
list. Please refer to the manual page for details. To accommodate this change,
the bitwise operators '&' and '|' were renamed to 'and' and 'or',
respectively.

** Pure 0.3 2008-06-06

This release sports a lot of improvements as well as bug and portability
fixes, see the ChangeLog for details. Many memory leaks have been plugged, and
tail call elimination has been improved a lot. The build system has gone
through a major overhaul, adding autoconf support. 64 bit support has been
improved as well, and Pure now builds and runs fine on MS Windows. Many
library functions have been rewritten to make them tail-recursive, and some
new functions have been added. Last but not least, the runtime support is now
implemented as a separate shared library which makes it possible to link
external modules against the runtime, and reduces the memory footprint when
multiple instances of the interpreter are run as different processes.

Special thanks to Tim Haynes, John Lunney, Eddie Rucker, Ryan Schmidt, Libor
Spacek and Jiri Spitz for contributions, suggestions and bug reports.

** Pure 0.2 2008-05-04

On the heels of Pure 0.1 comes the first bugfix release which addresses a
couple of bugs, misfeatures and Mac OSX compatibility issues, please refer to
the ChangeLog for details. I also added a more detailed INSTALL guide (thanks
are due to Eddie Rucker who wrote most of the new material in this guide) and
updated the manpage with a few minor corrections and some remarks about issues
raised on the Pure mailing list.

Please note that there are still some issues with Pure on 64 bit systems (as
well as on Ubuntu running on PowerPC) which are still on my TODO list, these
will hopefully be fixed in the next release.

Thanks to all who sent in bug reports and patches, in particular: Chris
Double, Tim Haynes, Eddie Rucker, Ryan Schmidt and Libor Spacek. (I hope I
didn't forget anyone.)

** Pure 0.1 2008-04-29

The much-awaited initial release. ;-) The interpreter is already fully
functional, but of course there's still a lot to be done (see the TODO file
for details). Please note that this is a preliminary, "beta" release, so
expect some bugs (and please report them to the author!).

The Pure project is now hosted at SourceForge, see http://pure-lang.sf.net. A
mailing list should soon be available, too.

See the INSTALLATION section in the README file to get up and running quickly.
After Pure is installed, read the Pure manual page (also available in various
formats from the Pure website) and have a look at the stuff in the examples
subdir, especially hello.pure, and review the standard library modules
(lib/*.pure).

Enjoy!

Albert Graef <Dr.Graef@t-online.de>
